789: consolidate metrics sonar documentation (#892)
exasol/python-toolbox: doc/user_guide/features/metrics/collecting_metrics.rst

Collecting Metrics
==================

The PTB collects code-quality data from its Nox sessions and then uploads the

> relevant results to Sonar for aggregation and review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PTB uses various Nox sessions incl. linting and tests to collect code-quality data
and upload the results to Sonar for aggregation and review.
```

Author: Applied

.. _generated_metrics:

Overview
++++++++

> The PTB metrics flow has three stages:

Reviewer: I think the term "metrics" is not incorrect but maybe outdated and confusing. The actual GitHub workflow is called `report.yml`. 

Let's see, if we can come up with a better, unique term....

How about changing the overall topic from "Collecting Metrics" to "Measuring Code Quality"?
I think in this place it might be really helpful asking Codex:

> Code Quality is the strongest replacement.
> 
> It matches what this section actually covers in
> doc/user_guide/features/metrics/collecting_metrics.rst:1: linting, security
> scanning, coverage,
>  
> Sonar aggregation, and findings triage. Those are quality checks and quality
> findings, not really “metrics” in the usual sense.
>
> Suggested renames:
> 
> * Metrics -> Code Quality
> * Collecting Metrics -> Collecting Code Quality Results
> * Generating Metrics -> Generating Code Quality Results
> * Reporting Metrics -> Reporting Code Quality Results

Author: Modified and updated

New titles are ::

Measuring Code Quality
====================

Overview
++++++++

Generate Code Quality Results
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

Report Code Quality Results
+++++++++++++++++++++++

Author: I also thought to split the big generating code quality results into **overview** and the **real generate block**.
so i asked Codex and it did it.

Reviewer: I liked this change very much!

Author: THANKS

|                          | * Checks that each file contains the expected attributes |
|                          |   for that file type                                     |
+--------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| ``sonar:check``          | * Creates ``ci-coverage.xml`` from ``.coverage``         |
|                          | * Uploads lint, security, and coverage data to Sonar     |
+--------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

After that, Sonar becomes the main review surface for combined PTB metrics.

Configure Sonar
+++++++++++++++

See :ref:`sonarqube_analysis` for the repository, secret, and
``pyproject.toml`` configuration needed for Sonar.

Handle Findings
+++++++++++++++

See :ref:`ignore_findings` if a Sonar finding cannot be fixed immediately and

> must be explicitly accepted or ignored.

Reviewer: In general I really like the current version: it's shorter, avoids repetition and uses more sober phrasing.
👍
